Add Crown Jewels Preview documentation (#36933)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/cloud_security_management/crown_jewels.md

---
title: Crown Jewels

> is_beta: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We only use this for integrations and security rules, so might as well remove it here, where it won't do anything 🙂

Author: @datadog fix this

further_reading:
- link: "/security/cloud_security_management/misconfigurations/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Security Misconfigurations"
- link: "/security/cloud_security_management/vulnerabilities/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Security Vulnerabilities"
- link: "/security/sensitive_data_scanner/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Sensitive Data Scanner"
---

<div class="alert alert-info">
Crown Jewels is in Preview. To request access, contact your Datadog account team or reach out to <a href="mailto:support@datadoghq.com">support@datadoghq.com</a>.

> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< callout url=https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/runtime-prioritization-engine/
 btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview!">}}
Crown Jewels is in Preview. Use this form to submit your request today.
{{< /callout >}}
```
This is the component we usually use for Preview features. I can see that this page is live, but the form isn't. If the form is going live soon, I think we should use this component instead of the one we currently have, since it removes a lot of the friction from signing up.

Author: @datadog fix this

## Overview

> Crown Jewels is an inventory of your most critical cloud resources, automatically detected from the telemetry you already send to Datadog. The list is the starting point for prioritizing security work across Cloud Security: vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, and identity risks linked to a crown jewel can be filtered, sorted, and routed differently from the rest of your findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crown Jewels is an inventory of your most critical cloud resources, automatically detected from the telemetry you already send to Datadog. The list is the starting point for prioritizing remediation work across Cloud Security: you can sort, filter and route vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, and identity risks that are linked to a crown jewel differently from the rest of your findings.
```
Suggested "remediation" because I thought "security work across Cloud Security" might sound a bit repetitive

Author: @datadog fix this

> The goal is straightforward. Most security teams have more findings than they can act on. Knowing which resources matter most lets you cut a large queue into the subset that needs attention first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most security teams have more findings than they can act on, but by knowing which resources matter most, you can start addressing the subset of findings that need attention first.
```

Author: @datadog fix this

> Datadog generates the initial list for you by applying a set of detection rules across different sources of telemetry, including APM, logs, and cloud storage. From there, you can curate the list to match what matters most in your environment.

Reviewer: It's a little hard to connect all the moving pieces in the beginning of this page: we talk about detection rules and telemetry sources here, and then resource types and detection signals in the tables slightly lower on the page. It's a lot of terminology without a lot of connection! Can we add a few sentences and maybe standardize some of the terminology we use to clarify how they all work together?

Author: Feel free to make any changes! The detection "rules" are used to gather the signals from the telemetry sources. The results are then shown as those resource types in the list

## What gets detected

> Crown Jewels evaluates three resource types in Preview:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crown Jewels evaluates three resource types:
```

Author: @datadog fix this

> | Resource Type | What we look at |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Resource Type | Data evaluated |
```
We can definitely think of something more descriptive here, but it helps to give some more details about what it is that we're looking at by naming it if we can 🙂

Author: @datadog fix this

|---|---|
| Services | APM-instrumented services and inferred services |
| Databases | Database instances observed through APM and Database Monitoring |
| Buckets | S3 buckets observed by Agentless Scanning and Sensitive Data Scanner |

> A resource is added to the list when one or more detection signals indicate that it handles sensitive data, holds credentials, or sits at a structurally important position in your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog adds a resource to the list when one or more detection signals indicate that the resource handles sensitive data, holds credentials, or sits at a structurally important position in your environment.
```

Author: @datadog fix this

### Detection signals

| Signal | Source | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Secrets in APM spans | APM trace data | A service with AWS access keys observed in span attributes |
| Sensitive fields in logs | Sensitive Data Scanner | A service with credit card numbers, emails, or credentials detected in log events |
| Sensitive column names | APM Database Monitoring | A database with columns named `password`, `ssn`, `email`, etc. |
| Sensitive data at rest | Agentless Scanning + Sensitive Data Scanner | An S3 bucket containing PII, credentials, or other sensitive content |
| Dependency choke point | APM service map | A service with high upstream caller count (failure or compromise has broad blast radius) |

> If none of these telemetry sources are enabled for a given resource, Crown Jewels cannot detect it. Coverage scales with the depth of your Datadog instrumentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crown Jewels can only make detections based on the telemetry sources that are enabled for a given resource. Coverage scales with the depth of your Datadog instrumentation.
```

Author: @datadog fix this

> ## How the list is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use the list to filter findings
```

Author: @datadog fix this

Every resource on the Crown Jewels list is tagged `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true`. The tag propagates to findings associated with that resource through Datadog's security data model:

- A misconfiguration on a virtual machine attached to a crown jewel service is marked as a crown jewel finding.
- A vulnerability in a container image running on a crown jewel service is marked as a crown jewel finding.

> - An identity risk involving a role with access to a crown jewel resource is marked as a crown jewel finding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every resource on the Crown Jewels list is tagged `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true`. The tag propagates to findings associated with that resource through Datadog's security data model. All of the following would be marked as crown jewel findings:

- A misconfiguration on a virtual machine attached to a crown jewel service
- A vulnerability in a container image running on a crown jewel service
- An identity risk involving a role with access to a crown jewel resource
```

Author: @datadog fix this

This propagation lets you use `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true` as a filter or facet in:

- **Vulnerability Explorer** to focus remediation on findings tied to critical resources.
- **Misconfiguration Explorer** to scope hardening work (including identity risks) to the assets that matter most.

> A typical pattern: filter Vulnerability Explorer to `severity:critical` AND `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can combine the filter with other criteria; for example, you can filter the Vulnerability Explorer to `severity:critical` AND `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true`.
```

Author: @datadog fix this

> ## Reviewing and editing the list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Review and edit the list
```

Author: @datadog fix this

> When you open the Crown Jewels page, Datadog has already populated the list. Each entry shows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view your Crown Jewels, go to **Security** > **Settings** > **Cloud Security** > [**Crown Jewels**][1]. Datadog automatically populates the list with entries showing:
```

Author: We can do this, but we also may move it out of settings soon (probably into inventory). Just as a heads up

- The resource type and name.
- The detection signal that triggered inclusion.
- A summary of the underlying evidence.

> Treat the auto-generated list as a draft. You can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Treat the automatically generated list as a draft that you can curate so it reflects what is actually critical to your business. You can:
```

Author: @datadog fix this

- **Remove** entries that do not match your understanding of what is critical (for example, a service flagged because of a low-value URL string).
- **Add** resources Datadog did not auto-detect but that you know are critical to your business.

> We encourage you to curate the list so it reflects what is actually critical to your business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: @datadog fix this

> ## Soft requirements

Reviewer: This section seems to be in line with the information we provided higher on the page. Maybe we can combine this table with the one about the detection signals, since the rows are quite similar? Let me know if you'd like me to take a stab at doing this 🙂

Author: Absolutely - go for it!

| To detect | You need |
|---|---|
| Services | APM enabled on the workload |
| Database column names | APM with Database Monitoring instrumented queries |
| Sensitive data in logs | Sensitive Data Scanner enabled on relevant log indexes |
| Sensitive data in S3 | Agentless Scanning enabled with Sensitive Data Scanner for cloud storage |
| Dependency choke points | APM service map populated (multiple instrumented services calling the target) |

Crown Jewels does not require any new instrumentation. If a telemetry source is missing, the detection signals that depend on it are unavailable, and you can still add the corresponding resources manually.

## Privacy and data handling

Crown Jewels runs on telemetry you have already sent to Datadog. It does not move data outside of your Datadog account or send data to third parties. Detection runs in the same regional infrastructure as your other Cloud Security data.

## Requesting access

Crown Jewels is rolled out per organization during Preview. To enable it on your Datadog organization:

- Contact your Datadog account team, or

> - Email [support@datadoghq.com](mailto:support@datadoghq.com) referencing "Crown Jewels Preview access."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is pretty much covered by the callout at the top of the page 🙂

Author: @datadog fix this

## Further reading

> {{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/configuration/critical-asset
```

Author: @datadog fix this

### Detection signals

Crown Jewels can only make detections based on the telemetry sources that are enabled for a given resource. Coverage scales with the depth of your Datadog instrumentation; the richer your instrumentation is, the greater the surface Datadog can evaluate, and thus the more accurate your automatically detected list can be. 

If a telemetry source for a signal type is missing and Datadog can't populate related resources automatically, you can still add resources manually.

| Signal | Source | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Secrets in APM spans | APM trace data | A service with AWS access keys observed in span attributes |
| Sensitive fields in logs | Sensitive Data Scanner (must be enabled on relevant log indexes) | A service with credit card numbers, emails, or credentials detected in log events |
| Sensitive column names | APM Database Monitoring | A database with columns named `password`, `ssn`, `email`, etc. |
| Sensitive data at rest | Agentless Scanning + Sensitive Data Scanner | An S3 bucket containing PII, credentials, or other sensitive content |

> | Dependency choke point | APM service map | A service with high upstream caller count (failure or compromise has broad blast radius) |

Reviewer 2: Let's not mention choke point but fan in.

From Claude:

"Choke point" is borrowed from network engineering and military strategy. It's evocative but imprecise, and conflates topology with risk.

My recommendation: standardize on "high fan-in", but surface it with a plain-language annotation:

▎ High fan-in — many services depend on this service; a compromise has a wide blast radius.

This gives engineers the correct mental model instantly (it maps directly to dependency graphs they already reason about) while making the security implication explicit.

Author: Added in latest commit

## Use the list to filter findings

> Every resource on the Crown Jewels list is tagged `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true`. The tag propagates to findings associated with that resource through Datadog's security data model. All of the following would be marked as crown jewel findings:

Reviewer 2: > Every resource on the Crown Jewels list is tagged `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true`

Not true, we are not tagging resources. This may confuse users: they may think they can query Resource Catalog with `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true` but they can't.

Author: Should be findings instead?

Author: Added in latest commit

- A misconfiguration on a virtual machine attached to a crown jewel service

> - A vulnerability in a container image running on a crown jewel service

Reviewer 2: > container image running on a crown jewel service

Weirdly put, a container image is not on a service but a service is deployed using a container image.

Suggestion:
```
A vulnerability in a container image used by a crown jewel service
```

Author: Added in latest commit

> - An identity risk involving a role with access to a crown jewel resource

Reviewer 2: We are currently not doing that, is it in the scope of preview?
If not, I'd remove this sentence

Author: The identities one right? I know we have vulnerabilities filterable at the moment - can we apply the filter to misconfigs as well

Author: (as a UI facet in misconfigs - i see the filter is working on there)

Author: Added in latest commit

This propagation lets you use `@risk.is_crown_jewel:true` as a filter or facet in:

- **Vulnerability Explorer** to focus remediation on findings tied to critical resources.

> - **Misconfiguration Explorer** to scope hardening work (including identity risks) to the assets that matter most.

Reviewer 2: I would add two more bullet points: 
 - Findings Automation, e.g. to set stricter remediation timeline on findings affecting crown jewel
 - Notifications, e.g. to route notification differently for findings affecting crown jewels

Author: Added in latest commit
